https://developer.apple.com/documentation/visionos/adopting-best-practices-for-privacySkip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Incorporating real-world surroundings in an immersive experience
Placing content on detected planes
Setting up access to ARKit data
Happy Beam
ARKit
Designing RealityKit content with Reality Composer Pro
Understanding RealityKit’s modular architecture
Documentation
Open Menu
Article
Adopting best practices for privacy and user preferences
Minimize your use of sensitive information and provide a clear statement of what information you do use and how you use it.
Overview
To protect user privacy, the system handles camera and sensor inputs without passing the information to apps directly. Instead, the system enables your app to seamlessly interact with a user’s surroundings and to automatically receive input from the user. For example, the system handles the eye- and hand-position data needed to detect interactions with your app’s content. Similarly, the system provides a way to automatically alter a view’s appearance when someone looks at it, without your app ever knowing what the user is looking at.
In the few cases where you actually need access to hand position or information about the user’s surroundings, the system requires you to obtain authorization from the user first.
Important
It’s your responsibility to protect any data your app collects, and to use it in responsible and privacy-preserving ways. Don’t ask for data that you don’t need, be transparent about how you use the data you acquire, and respect the choices of the person whose data it is.
For general information about privacy, see Protecting the User’s Privacy.
Adopt the system-provided input mechanisms
On Apple Vision Pro, people use their eyes and hands to interact with the items they see in front of them. Where they look determines where the system applies focus, and a tap gesture with either hand generates a touch event on that focused item. The system can also detect when someone’s fingers interact with virtual items in the person’s field of vision. When you adopt the standard UIKit and SwiftUI event-handling mechanisms, you get all of these interactions automatically.
For most apps, the system-provided gesture recognizers are sufficient for responding to interactions. Although you can get the position of someone’s hands with ARKit, doing so isn’t necessary for most apps. Collect hand-position data only when the system doesn’t offer what you need. For example, you might use hand-position data to attach 3D content to the person’s hands. Some other things to remember about hand-position data:
People can deny your request for access to hand-position data. Be prepared to handle situations where the data isn’t available.
You must present an immersive space to access hand data. When you open an immersive space, the system hides other apps.
For information about how to handle the standard-system events, see the SwiftUI and UIKit documentation.
Provide clear messaging around privacy-sensitive features
The following ARKit features require you to provide a usage description string in your app’s Info.plist file:
World-tracking data
Hand-tracking data
Other privacy-sensitive technologies in visionOS also require you to supply usage description strings. For example, you provide usage descriptions for the Core Location features you adopt. These strings communicate why your app needs the data, and how you plan to use the data to help the person using your app. The first time you request authorization to use the technology, the system prompts the person to grant or deny access to your app. The system includes your usage-description string in the dialog it displays.
For information about requesting access to ARKit data, see ARKit. For guidance on how to craft good messages around privacy-friendly features, see Human Interface Guidelines.
See Also
Design
Improving accessibility support in your visionOS app
Update your code to ensure everyone can access your app’s content in visionOS.
Current page is Adopting best practices for privacy and user preferences
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

