https://developer.apple.com/documentation/realitykit/bringing-a-reality-composer-scene-to-lifeSkip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Postprocessing effects
Physics simulation
Collision detection
Body and face tracking
Transforms: Position, Orientation, and Scale
Runtime modifications
r
P
RealityCoordinateSpace
Behaviors
Building Custom Behaviors
Selecting an Anchor for a Reality Composer Scene
Anchors
Improving the Accessibility of RealityKit Apps
Adding Procedural Assets to a Scene
Manipulating Reality Composer Scenes from Code
Arranging Elements in a Scene
Documentation
Open Menu
Swift
Article
Bringing a Reality Composer Scene to Life
Add animation and handle user input by using behaviors, triggers, and actions.
Overview
Users can interact with your Reality Composer scenes in a number of different ways without you having to explicitly code for them using Reality Composer’s behaviors. You can, for example, allow a user’s touch to affect objects in your scene, or let objects respond when the user moves close to them.
Reality Composer includes a number of behavior presets that let you easily add common forms of interactivity to your scene. You can also build your own custom behaviors or use a preset as a starting point for building more complex behaviors. For more information, see Building Custom Behaviors.
Add a Behavior Preset
Reality Composer provides six behavior presets that simplify adding common forms of interactivity to your scenes. If any objects in your scene are selected when you add a behavior from a preset, the new behavior is automatically configured to affect the selected object or objects. This list describes each of the behavior presets:
Tap & Flip
Causes one or more objects to animate by jumping up and spinning around in response to user taps
Tap & Play Sound
Plays a sound in response to user taps
Tap & Add Force
Applies a force to objects that simulate physics in response to user taps
Start Hidden
Causes one or more objects to be invisible when the scene starts
Wait & Show
Causes one or more objects to start as invisible, then become visible after a specified duration
Proximity & Jiggle
Causes one or more objects to jiggle in response to the viewer getting close to it
To add a behavior preset to your scene, select the object or objects you want as the target of the behavior, tap the Behaviors button in the toolbar to bring up the Behaviors pane, then tap the plus button to reveal a popover that shows all of the available behavior presets as well as an option to create a custom behavior. Select a preset and Reality Composer adds a new behavior to your scene based on that preset. If, for example, you select an object and add the “Tap and Flip” behavior, a new behavior is added to your scene. This behavior is automatically configured so that the selected object flips over whenever a user taps it. To test the behavior, select the Play button in the toolbar, then tap the selected object.
Rename a Behavior
A newly added behavior is named “Behavior.” Immediately rename behaviors to reflect what they actually do. On an iOS device, press and hold the behavior’s name and select Rename from the menu that appears. On a Mac, select a behavior, and choose Rename from the Edit menu or press the Return key.
See Also
Behaviors
API Reference
Building Custom Behaviors
Create custom behaviors to control objects in your scene.
Creating a Trigger
Define when and how a behavior fires.
Adding Interactivity to Behaviors
Define what a behavior does by using actions.
Current page is Bringing a Reality Composer Scene to Life
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

