https://developer.apple.com/documentation/realitykit/building-custom-behaviorsSkip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Runtime modifications
r
P
RealityCoordinateSpace
Beta
Animation
Audio
Scene reconstruction and understanding
Cameras and lighting
Anchors
Selecting an Anchor for a Reality Composer Scene
Anchors
Improving the Accessibility of RealityKit Apps
Adding Procedural Assets to a Scene
Manipulating Reality Composer Scenes from Code
Arranging Elements in a Scene
Configuring Elements in a Scene
Adding Elements to a 3D Scene
Documentation
Open Menu
Swift
Building Custom Behaviors
Create custom behaviors to control objects in your scene.
Overview
Behaviors are composed of two parts: a trigger and an action sequence. A behavior’s trigger defines how and when it fires, and the action sequence defines what actually happens when it does. Common triggers include an object being tapped by the user, coming into proximity with another object in the scene, or receiving a notification sent from code. Common actions include showing, hiding, and moving objects, and playing sounds.
Behaviors give you a versatile way to add interactivity to a Reality Composer scene. To create your own new behavior, select the Custom option when adding a behavior. The behavior is added to your scene with no defined trigger or action sequence.
Define a Trigger
Every behavior must contain a trigger, which defines how and when that behavior fires. See Creating a Trigger.
Build an Action Sequence
A behavior’s action sequence defines what actually happens when the behavior fires. The sequence can consist of one or more actions that you configure to run sequentially or concurrently. See Adding Interactivity to Behaviors.
Add Actions
To add the first action to a sequence, tap or click the plus button next to the Action Sequence title, or in the dotted box below it, and choose one of the available actions from the popover that appears. If objects in your scene are selected when you add an action, the new action is automatically configured to affect the selected objects.
If no objects are selected when you create the action, specify the objects that you want it to affect by using the Affected Object section at the top of the action. Tap or click the Choose button to go into selection mode, then click or tap the object or objects you want the action to affect. If an object is already selected, clicking or tapping it removes it from being affected by the action. When you’re finished, press the Done button to finalize your selection.
For more information about using Reality Composer’s Actions, see Adding Interactivity to Behaviors.
Configure Multiple Actions to Run Concurrently
For many behaviors, a single action is all you’ll need, but you can also create complex action sequences by combining multiple actions in one sequence. By default, when you add another action to a sequence, it runs sequentially after the existing actions finish.
Sometimes, you want two or more actions to run at the same time instead of running one after the other. For example, you might want one object to flip at the same time that a sound plays. To make multiple actions in a sequence run concurrently, drag one of the actions onto the other. The two actions’ boxes then combine into a single larger box, as shown in the following figure, indicating that they now run at the same time. To run additional actions simultaneously, drag more actions onto the larger box. To make concurrent actions sequential again, drag individual actions outside of the joined box.
Topics
Custom Behaviors
Creating a Trigger
Define when and how a behavior fires.
Adding Interactivity to Behaviors
Define what a behavior does by using actions.
See Also
Anchors
Selecting an Anchor for a Reality Composer Scene
Decide which anchor is right for your scenes.
Current page is Building Custom Behaviors
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

