Skip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Adding a background to your view
Layering views
S
GridItem
S
LazyVGrid
S
LazyHGrid
Dynamically arranging views in two dimensions
M
func gridColumnAlignment(HorizontalAlignment) -> some View
Statically arranging views in one dimension
Picking container views for your content
Choosing a layout
Layout fundamentals
View layout
Drawing and graphics
Shapes
Menus and commands
Documentation
Open Menu
Swift
Article
Building layouts with stack views
Compose complex layouts from primitive container views.
Overview
Individually, HStack, VStack, and ZStack are simple views. HStack positions views in a horizontal line, VStack positions them in a vertical line, and ZStack overlays views on top of one another.
When you initialize them with default parameters, stack views center align their content and insert a small amount of spacing between each contained view. But, when you combine and customize stacks with view modifiers, Spacer, and Divider views, you can create highly flexible and complex layouts.
Plan your layout hierarchy
Think about a layout in terms of how you might create it using the various types of stack views as you start to translate your design into code. Break down complex designs into smaller, simpler pieces you can build with stack views.
For example, you might build this profile view using three stack views:
A ZStack contains an Image view that displays a profile picture with a semi-transparent HStack overlaid on top. The HStack contains a VStack with a pair of Text views inside it, and a Spacer view pushes the VStack to the leading side.
To create this stack view:
struct ProfileView: View {
    var body: some View {
        ZStack(alignment: .bottom) {
            Image("ProfilePicture")
                .resizable()
                .aspectRatio(contentMode: .fit)
            HStack {
                VStack(alignment: .leading) {
                    Text("Rachael Chiseck")
                        .font(.headline)
                    Text("Chief Executive Officer")
                        .font(.subheadline)
                }
                Spacer()
            }
            .padding()
            .foregroundColor(.primary)
            .background(Color.primary
                            .colorInvert()
                            .opacity(0.75))
        }
    }
}
Position views with alignment and spacer views
Align any contained views inside a stack view by using a combination of the alignment property, Spacer, and Divider views.
In the previous example layout, the VStack that contains the two Text views uses the leading alignment:
The alignment property doesn’t position the VStack inside its container; instead, it positions the views inside the VStack.
The alignment property of a VStack only applies to the horizontal alignment of the contained controls using HorizontalAlignment. Similarly, the alignment property for an HStack only controls the vertical alignment using VerticalAlignment. Finally, you can align views inside a ZStack along both axes with Alignment.
Use Spacer views to align views along the primary axis of an HStack or VStack. Spacers expand to fill any available space and push content apart from other views or the edges of the stack.
Divider views also add space in between a stack’s subviews, but only insert enough space to draw a line across the stack’s minor axis. They don’t expand to fill available space.
Create adaptive layouts instead of explicit layouts
Wherever possible, define structure and hierarchy rather than explicitly positioning view frames. Instead of using explicit heights and widths for views, let them expand to fill available space. Adaptive layouts that you build adapt more easily to different device sizes and platforms.
It is possible to create this article’s example layout with two stack views rather than three, by manipulating the Text view frames explicitly. While the output might look the same, the code to implement it is more brittle, and might not scale as well across devices of different size classes.
You may need to make adjustments to a layout that uses explicit adjustments by using view modifiers such as frame(width:height:alignment:) or position(x:y:), but only consider this when you can’t achieve your desired layout in an adaptive, flexible way. For more information on making fine adjustments to view layout, see Making fine adjustments to a view’s position.
Add depth in alternative ways
In some situations it may make sense to add depth to your layout by using the overlay(_:alignment:) and background(_:alignment:) view modifiers instead of a ZStack. The background view modifier places another view behind the view you’re modifying, and overlay places a view on top of it.
Choose between a stack-based approach and the view modifier approach based on how you want to determine the size of the final layout. If your layout has one dominant view that defines the size of the layout, use the overlay(_:alignment:) or background(_:alignment:) view modifier on that view. If you want the final view size to come from an aggregation of all the contained views, use a ZStack.
For example, this code overlays a ProfileDetail view on top of the Image view:
struct ProfileViewWithOverlay: View {
    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Image("ProfilePicture")
                .resizable()
                .aspectRatio(contentMode: .fit)
                .overlay(ProfileDetail(), alignment: .bottom)
        }
    }
}


struct ProfileDetail: View {
    var body: some View {
        HStack {
            VStack(alignment: .leading) {
                Text("Rachael Chiseck")
                    .font(.headline)
                Text("Chief Executive Officer")
                    .font(.subheadline)
            }
            Spacer()
        }
        .padding()
        .foregroundColor(.primary)
        .background(Color.primary
                        .colorInvert()
                        .opacity(0.75))
    }
}
See Also
Statically arranging views in one dimension
struct HStack
A view that arranges its subviews in a horizontal line.
struct VStack
A view that arranges its subviews in a vertical line.
Current page is Building layouts with stack views
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

