Skip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Running your app in Simulator or on a device
Simulator
Configuring your app icon
Creating a performance plan for your visionOS app
Diagnosing issues in the appearance of a running app
Diagnosing and resolving bugs in your running app
Xcode and Instruments
Trimming and exporting media in visionOS
Documentation
Open Menu
Article
Interacting with your app in the visionOS simulator
Use your Mac to navigate spaces and control interactions with your visionOS apps in Simulator.
Overview
Use Simulator to run apps in visionOS without installing them on a physical device. When you run your app in Simulator, you can see a monoscopic view of your app’s windows and 3D content inside an immersive space. Use your Mac to alter the viewpoint of the app within the space and navigate the app’s interface.
Interact with your app
To use your Mac’s pointer and keyboard to create gestures, choose “Select to interact with the scene” from the buttons at the bottom-right of a visionOS simulator window. The current gaze position tracks your pointer movements when you hover over content within the space.
Use the following actions to trigger gestures:
Gesture
To simulate
Tap
Click.
Double-tap
Double-click.
Touch and hold
Click and hold.
Drag (left, right, up, and down)
Drag left, right, up, and down.
Drag (forward and back)
Shift-drag up and down.
Two-handed gestures
Press and hold the Option key to display touch points. Move the pointer while pressing the Option key to change the distance between the touch points. Move the pointer and hold the Shift and Option keys to reposition the touch points.
Activate device buttons using menu items or by clicking the controls in the simulator window toolbar.
Navigate the space
Use your Mac’s pointer and the keyboard to reposition your viewpoint in a visionOS simulator window:
Movement
To simulate
Left
Press the A key, or drag to the left using two fingers on a trackpad or Magic Mouse.
Right
Press the D key, or drag to the right using two fingers on a trackpad or Magic Mouse.
Up
Press the E key, or drag up using two fingers on a trackpad or Magic Mouse.
Down
Press the Q key, or drag down using two fingers on a trackpad or Magic Mouse.
Forward
Press the W key, perform a pinch gesture moving two fingers toward each other on a trackpad, or scroll up using a scroll wheel.
Backward
Press the S key, perform a pinch gestures moving two fingers away from each other on a trackpad, or scroll down using a scroll wheel.
You can also control the viewpoint with a standard drag. To do so, choose “Click and drag to pan the camera” from the buttons at the bottom-right of the simulator window to move the viewpoint left, right, up or down and choose “Click and drag to dolly the camera” to move it forward or backward.
To change your viewing angle, Control-drag inside a visionOS simulator window. You can choose “Click and drag to tilt the camera” from the buttons at the bottom-right of the simulator window to use a drag without the Control key.
To reset the viewpoint and viewing angle for a visionOS simulator, choose the Reset Camera button from the toolbar at the top-right of its window.
Note
To capture the input from the pointer and keyboard, bypassing navigation control, to direct the input to the simulated device, use the Pointer Capture and Keyboard Capture buttons in the toolbar at the top-right of a visionOS simulator window. Click the Esc (Escape) key to disable capture and restore navigation controls.
When moving with a trackpad or Magic Mouse, Simulator respects the natural scrolling setting on macOS.
You can also use a game controller to control your movement. Use the left stick to move left, right, forward or back. Use R2 and L2 to move up and down. Use the right stick on a game controller to pan around the space.
Switch between simulated scenes
Simulator provides three types of built-in scenes you can use as simulated passthrough. Each scene has different lighting conditions, room layout, and furnitures for different testing scenarios.
Use the simulated scene to test:
Readability of your app in varying backgrounds and varying lighting conditions.
Different scenarios, including limited and cluttered surroundings, to see how your app adapts to them.
Snapping to different surface anchors.
Content layout, positioning, and scale.
Spatial audio and acoustics.
To change the simulated scene, click and hold the Simulated Scenes button in the toolbar at the top-right of a visionOS simulator window and choose the scene you want.
Current page is Interacting with your app in the visionOS simulator
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

