https://developer.apple.com/documentation/realitykit/adding-elements-to-a-3d-sceneSkip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Cameras and lighting
Anchors
Materials and shaders
Models, shapes, and meshes
Hello World
Scene content
USD Assets
Loading Reality Composer Files Manually Without Generated Code
Loading Reality Composer Files Using Generated Code
Creating 3D Content with Reality Composer
Scene Creation
Reality Composer
Designing RealityKit content with Reality Composer Pro
Diorama
Asset creation
Documentation
Open Menu
Swift
Article
Adding Elements to a 3D Scene
Add assets to your scene from Reality Composer’s library, or import custom assets.
Overview
To build a scene in Reality Composer, you import assets from usdz or Reality files, or select them from Reality Composer’s extensive library of configurable 3D objects you can customize by changing parameter values in the Properties inspector. Once the assets are in your scene, you can move, rotate, and scale them relative to the scene’s anchor guides. For more information about manipulating assets you’ve added to your scene, see Arranging Elements in a Scene.
Add a Library Asset
To add an asset from Reality Composer’s Object library, click or tap the plus button (+) in the toolbar to bring up the library popover, then drag the object you want into your scene view to place it.
Every library asset has a different set of parameters that you can change to alter its appearance. Although certain parameter sections, such as Transform and Physics, are available for all assets, most are available only when they make sense for the selected object. The clock asset, for example, lets you specify a time to display in the inspector, but other assets do not.
Import a Custom 3D Asset from a File
To import your own custom assets into a scene, use the Import button in the library popover, then navigate to a usdz or Reality file containing the asset you wish to import. On the Mac, you can also drag usdz or Reality files onto your Reality Composer project or select Import from the File menu.
The asset contained in the selected file is imported into your project and added to the current scene. Imported assets are available in Reality Composer’s library whenever you’re working with this project.
Create a Chart from a Data Source
Reality Composer’s library contains two chart assets: a pie chart and a bar chart. In addition to requiring you to provide parameter values for configuring their appearance, these two chart objects also require you to provide a data source in the form of a comma-separated values (CSV) file containing the data to be charted.
The CSV file requires two pieces of data for each item in the graph: a label and a numeric value. Your CSV file can represent the data you’re charting in columns or rows, and you can choose to include or exclude headers.
If you tap or click a chart object in your scene, the Property inspector shows a button for importing a data source. Click or tap that button and select your CSV file. The chart then automatically updates to reflect the labels and values contained in the imported file.
See Also
Scene Creation
API Reference
Creating 3D Content with Reality Composer
Assemble assets into a dynamic 3D composition that you can add to a scene in your app, or share with AR Quick Look.
Loading Reality Composer Files Using Generated Code
Leverage automatically generated code to load scenes from Xcode.
Loading Reality Composer Files Manually Without Generated Code
Load Reality Composer files that aren’t part of your Xcode project.
Configuring Elements in a Scene
Define the appearance and behavior of objects in a scene.
Arranging Elements in a Scene
Manipulate objects to complete your Reality Composer scene.
Manipulating Reality Composer Scenes from Code
Make programmatic changes to your scenes at runtime.
Adding Procedural Assets to a Scene
Create procedurally generated shape primitives to your Reality Composer scene.
Improving the Accessibility of RealityKit Apps
Incorporate assistive technologies in your augmented reality app.
Current page is Adding Elements to a 3D Scene
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

