https://developer.apple.com/documentation/visionos/bringing-your-arkit-app-to-visionosSkip Navigation
Apple Developer
News
Discover
Design
Develop
Distribute
Support
Account
Interacting with your app in the visionOS simulator
Running your app in Simulator or on a device
Simulator
Configuring your app icon
Creating a performance plan for your visionOS app
Diagnosing issues in the appearance of a running app
Diagnosing and resolving bugs in your running app
Xcode and Instruments
Documentation
Open Menu
Article
Bringing your ARKit app to visionOS
Update an iPadOS or iOS app that uses ARKit, and provide an equivalent experience in visionOS.
Overview
If you use ARKit to create an augmented reality experience on iPhone or iPad, you need to rethink your use of that technology when bringing your app to visionOS. ARKit plays a crucial role in delivering your content to the display in iPadOS and iOS. In visionOS, you use ARKit only to acquire data about the person’s surroundings, and you do so using a different set of APIs.
In visionOS, you don’t need a special view to display an augmented reality interface. Build windows with your app’s content using SwiftUI or UIKit. When you display those windows, visionOS places them in the person’s surroundings for you. If you want to control the placement of any 2D or 3D content in the person’s surroundings, build your content using SwiftUI and RealityKit.
When migrating your app to visionOS, reuse as much of your app’s existing content as you can. visionOS supports most of the same technologies as iOS, so you can reuse project assets, 3D models, and most custom views. Don’t reuse your app’s ARKit code or any code that relies on technologies visionOS doesn’t support.
For general guidance on how to port apps to visionOS, see Bringing your existing apps to visionOS.
Adopt technologies available in both iOS and visionOS
To create a single app that runs in both iOS and visionOS, use technologies that are available on both platforms. While ARKit in iOS lets you create your interface using several different technologies, the preferred technologies in visionOS are SwiftUI and RealityKit. If you’re not currently using RealityKit for 3D content, consider switching to it before you start adding visionOS support. If you retain code that uses older technologies in your iOS app, you might need to re-create much of that code using RealityKit when migrating to visionOS.
If you use Metal to draw your app’s content, you can bring your code to visionOS to create content for 2D views or to create fully immersive experiences. You can’t use Metal to create 3D content that integrates with the person’s surroundings. This restriction prevents apps from sampling pixels of the person’s surroundings, which might contain sensitive information. For information on how to create a fully immersive experience with Metal, see Drawing fully immersive content using Metal.
Convert 3D assets to the USDZ format
The recommended format for 3D assets in iOS and visionOS is USDZ. This format offers a compact single file for everything, including your models, textures, behaviors, physics, anchoring, and more. If you have assets that don’t use this format, use the Reality Converter tool that comes with Xcode to convert them for your project.
When building 3D scenes for visionOS, use Reality Composer Pro to create your scenes that incorporate your USDZ assets. With Reality Composer Pro, you can import your USD files and edit them in place, nondestructively. If your iOS app applies custom materials to your assets, convert those materials to shader graphs in the app.
Although you can bring models and materials to your project using USDZ files, you can’t bring custom shaders you wrote using Metal. Replace any custom shader code with MaterialX shaders. Many digital content creation tools support the MaterialX standard, and let you create dynamic shaders and save them with your USDZ files. Reality Composer Pro and RealityKit support MaterialX shaders, and incorporate them with your other USDZ asset content. For more information about MaterialX, see https://materialx.org.
Update your interface to support visionOS
In visionOS, you manage your app’s content, and the system handles the integration of that content with the person’s surroundings. This approach differs from iOS, where you use a special ARKit view to blend your content and the live camera content. Bringing your interface to visionOS therefore means you need to remove this special ARKit view and focus only on your content.
If you can display your app’s content using SwiftUI or UIKit views, build a window with those views and present it from your visionOS app. If you use other technologies to incorporate 2D or 3D content into the person’s surroundings, make the following substitutions in the visionOS version of your app.
If you create your AR experience using:
Update to:
RealityKit and ARView
RealityKit and RealityView
SceneKit and ARSCNView
RealityKit and RealityView
SpriteKit and ARSKView
RealityKit or SwiftUI
A RealityView is a SwiftUI view that manages the content and animations you create using RealityKit and Reality Composer Pro. You can add a RealityView to any of your app’s windows to display 2D or 3D content. You can also add the view to an ImmersiveSpace scene, which you use to integrate your RealityKit content into the person’s surroundings.
Note
You can load iOS storyboards into a visionOS app, but you can’t customize your interface for visionOS or include 3D content. If you want to share interface files between iOS and visionOS, adopt SwiftUI views or create your interface programmatically.
For more information about how to use RealityView and respond to interactions with your content, see Adding 3D content to your app.
Replace your ARKit code
ARKit provides different APIs for iOS and visionOS, and the way you use ARKit services on the platforms is also different. In iOS, you must use ARKit to put your content onscreen, and you can also use it to manage interactions between your content and a person’s surroundings. In visionOS, the system puts your content onscreen, so you only use ARKit to manage interactions with the surroundings. Because of this more limited usage, some apps don’t need ARKit at all in visionOS.
The only time you use ARKit in visionOS is when you need one of the following services:
Plane detection
Image tracking
Scene reconstruction
Hand tracking
World tracking and device-pose prediction
Use plane detection, image tracking, and scene reconstruction to facilitate interactions between your app’s virtual content and real-world items. For example, use plane detection to detect a tabletop on which to place your content. Use world tracking to record anchors that you want to persist between launches of your app. Use hand tracking if your app requires custom hands-based input.
To start ARKit services in your app, create an ARKitSession object and run it with the data providers for each service. Unlike ARKit in iOS, services in visionOS are independent of one another, and you can start and stop each one at any time. The following example shows how to detect horizontal and vertical planes. Data providers deliver new information using an asynchronous sequence.
let session = ARKitSession()
let planeData = PlaneDetectionProvider(alignments: [.horizontal, .vertical])


Task {
    try await session.run([planeData])
    
    for await update in planeData.anchorUpdates {
        switch update.event {
        case .added, .updated:
            // Update plane representation.
            print("Updated planes.")
        case .removed:
            // Indicate plane removal.
            print("Removed plane.")
        }
    }
}
If you use the world-tracking data provider in visionOS, ARKit automatically persists the anchors you add to your app’s content. You don’t need to persist these anchors yourself.
For more information about how to use ARKit, see ARKit.
Isolate ARKit features not available in visionOS
If your app uses ARKit features that aren’t present in visionOS, isolate that code to the iOS version of your app. The following features are available in iOS, but don’t have an equivalent in visionOS:
Face tracking
Body tracking
Geotracking and placing anchors using a latitude and longitude
Object detection
App Clip Code detection
Video frame post-processing
Although whole body tracking isn’t available in visionOS, you can track the hands of the person wearing the device. Hand gestures are an important way of interacting with content in visionOS. SwiftUI handles common types of interactions like taps and drags, but you can use custom hand tracking for more complex gestures your app supports.
If you use ARKit raycasting in iOS to detect interactions with objects in the person’s surroundings, you might not need that code in visionOS. SwiftUI and RealityKit handle both direct and indirect interactions with your app’s content in 3D space, eliminating the need for raycasting in many situations. In other situations, you can use the features of ARKit and RealityKit to manage interactions with your content. For example, you might use ARKit hand tracking to determine where someone is pointing in the scene, and use scene reconstruction to build a mesh you can integrate into your RealityKit content.
See Also
iOS migration and compatibility
Bringing your existing apps to visionOS
Build a version of your iPadOS or iOS app using the visionOS SDK, and update your code for platform differences.
Checking whether your existing app is compatible with visionOS
Determine whether your existing iOS or iPadOS app runs as is in visionOS or requires modifications to handle platform differences.
Making your existing app compatible with visionOS
Modify your iPadOS or iOS app to run successfully in visionOS.
Current page is Bringing your ARKit app to visionOS
Developer
Documentation
Platforms
iOS
iPadOS
macOS
tvOS
watchOS
visionOS
Tools
Swift
SwiftUI
Swift Playgrounds
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Topics & Technologies
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Business
Design
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Documentation
Curriculum
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Support
Support Articles
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
Account
Apple Developer
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
Apple Developer Program
Apple Developer Enterprise Program
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
News Partner Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Events Overview
App Accelerators
App Store Awards
Apple Design Awards
Apple Developer Academies
Entrepreneur Camp
Ask Apple
Tech Talks
WWDC
To view the latest developer news, visit News and Updates .
Light
Dark
Auto
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Agreements and Guidelines

